# WebSocket
## March 19
### WebSocket
HTTP is based on a client-server architecture. A client always initiates the request and the server responds. This is great if you are building a global document library connected by hyperlinks, but for many other use cases it just doesn’t work. Applications for notifications, distributed task processing, peer-to-peer communication, or asynchronous events need communication that is initiated by two or more connected devices. 
For years, web developers created hacks to work around the limitation of the client/server model, which were not elegant or efficient. Finally, the communication protocol WebSocket was created to solve this problem. The core feature is that it is fully duplexed. This emans that after the initial connection is made from a client, using vanilla HTTP, and then upgraded by the server to a WebSocket connection, the relationship changes to a peer-to-peer connection where either party can efficiently send data.These are still between two parties, meaning that if you want to have communication between a group of users, a server must act as an intermediary which receives and sends messages. 
#### Creating a WebSocket conversation
JavaScript running on a browser can initiate a WebSocket connection with the browser’s WebSocket API. Assuming the browser is addressing on appropriate host and port, first you create a WebSocket object: the first line below queries the browser to determine which protocol is being used and selects the appropriate WebSocket upgrade; the second line creates the WebSocket object, using teh selected protocol and the hostname and port currently being used by the browser: 
```js
const protocol = window.location.protocol === 'http:' ? 'ws' : 'wss';
const socket = new WebSocket(`${protocol}://${window.location.host}`);
```

You can then register a callback using the onmessage function to specify how to handle incoming messages:
```js
socket.onmessage = (event) => {
  console.log('received: ', event.data);
};
```

And, you can send messages using the send function:
```js
socket.send('I am listening');
```

The server uses the ws package to create a WebSocketServer that is listening on the same port the browser is using. When a connection is detected it calls the server’s on connection callback. The server can then send messages with the send function, and register a callback using the on message function to receive messages. 
```js
const { WebSocketServer } = require('ws');

const wss = new WebSocketServer({ port: 3000 });

wss.on('connection', (ws) => {
  ws.on('message', (data) => {
    const msg = String.fromCharCode(...data);
    console.log('received: %s', msg);

    ws.send(`I heard you say "${msg}"`);
  });

  ws.send('Hello webSocket');
});
```
### Debugging WebSocket
You can debug both sides of the WebSocket communication withVS Code to debug the server, and Chrome to debug the client. When you do this you will notice that Chrome’s debugger has support specifically for working with WebSocket communication.
The main things with debugging offered here are:
__Instructions on debugging the server:__
- You have to install ws through npm
- Set break points and choose Node.js as the debugger.
__For debugging the client:__
- Put code (placed below in these notes) into the debugger console window as well and execute it, which will allow you to look at what’s going on
- Use the Network tab to see the HTTP message generated by the code.
- Then, use the Messages tab to view WebSocket messages.
- Send a message to the server; this will hit a breakpoint.
- Send message back and forth

```js
const protocol = window.location.protocol === 'http:' ? 'ws' : 'wss';
const socket = new WebSocket(`${protocol}://${window.location.host}`);

socket.onmessage = (event) => {
  console.log('received: ', event.data);
};
```

### WebSocket chat
This explores how to build a WebSocket chat application. Note that you need to configure NPM to run vite. 
